We're going to see ovulation, which will
start, and what's very important is that we see the fimbriae of the ovary.
You've already seen the precise anatomy of the lesser pelvis, you've already seen the precise anatomy
of the uterus,
then the ovaries, and behind them, you have what are called the broad ligaments,
the round ligaments, the lumbosacral ligaments, the ligaments...
sacral, etc., but which are in fact only one and the same tissue.
What do I mean by that? It's that if you observe the embryology, the
anatomy
of the uterus, you'll notice that it's a fold of the posterior parietal
peritoneum.
You have the posterior parietal peritoneum, and in development, there will be a
posterior concentration to form a uterus and
to form...
fallopian tubes, which will be here. And what we observe is that it
needs to be
mobile, because they have to capture, you see, the oocyte,
with my sacrum, there's a movement,
you see, in the shape of a lemniscate, you see, which
is linked both to the mobility of growth,
given by mobility and organized by motility.
Are you following me?
So I have a movement like this in the shape of a lemniscate,
but linked to a whole mesentery tissue that is in continuity
with the endopelvic fascia, etc.
Let's say that now, if I look here at my digestive
system,
I have my omental fascia.
which is here, and which inserts into the posterior parietal peritoneum.
Well, if I have appendicitis, for example, and I have
a stop or a loss on an energetic
level, on a fascial level of this continuity, it can disturb
the motility or mobility of my ovary to capture the oocyte.
The peritoneum must be free to allow this
fertilization.
To allow for this fertilization, to allow first to take the fimbriae.
If it doesn't take it, the oocyte remains in the
pelvic area, let's say,
this can lead to what are called ectopic pregnancies.
which are more of a danger.
Why? Because if we look at the anatomy,
there's a direct link from the vagina to the peritoneal cavity
through this continuity, you see.
In men, it's closed, because there was Müller's tubercle
and Wolffian duct that differentiated, so there's no connection.
It first created here, for the spermatozoa.
A first major barrier, very important, which we call a kind
of vaginal acidity.
A hygiene that is present in women, which is very important to destroy any
unnecessary bacteria.
First thing.
Then, there will be a second thing.
There will be a small mucous plug here at the cervix
of the uterus.
You have the cervix of the uterus.
Here, you see a small mucous plug.
If we look from the front, we see that this mucous plug,
once a month, it lets the small lateral
openings pass.
The spermatozoon can pass.
If it doesn't work, they will close.
There are secretions.
It needs to close most of the time.
If there's really an increase, there can be scenes of loss.
which are discharges linked, among other things, to this.
So this opening is needed here.
Then, I'm going to go into the uterus,
and I'm going to enter the uterus,
and very quickly, what's going to happen?
There will be, and this is something that is very present in the body,
and we'll talk about it later in the asymmetry processes,
is that at the level of these cervices here, we don't see them.
Well, in fact, there are small cilia.
so not only do we arrive
we've already been bombarded
if we pass
we have to pass the cervix
we arrive at the right time we can go
then we arrive in the uterus
and there we still have to take the right direction
in general we are attracted by the heat
by sugar, by electrical activities
we go towards the region
and there
it's cleaned
but all this is very important
why?
because it won't work
That is, there's one sperm that wins.
It's not one that wins.
It's a whole that allows something to happen.
That's why nature is so well made.
There's no winner.
Naturally, it's still the one who will be the straightest,
a little stronger, you see, to get there.
Because it still has to pass all these barriers.
Because there are some with defects in their sperm.
Some have crooked flagella, so what do they do? They go in circles.
When I arrive here, I will encounter another important phase,
which is that I must reach the most optimal zone,
that is, where the most optimal quality, it is a quality of a thermal
equilibrium
and an equilibrium where the oocyte is ready to truly welcome the spermatozoon.
Because on the membrane, there are what are called...
proteins, which are called
glycoproteins.
It's called ZP3.
But not in its soul.
I touch the heart.
Because the true center is there.
With consciousness, you know.
I say it, I understood you, Lourdes.
I try.
If you come to me and I know this,
I can't not do it
the ovary
the oocyte that will come out
you will understand
and then here the fimbriae
that comes
to capture this potential
enormous life
look at an ovulation
it's not
It's not tiny.
It's not just a tiny cell, guys.
No, we shut up.
And there, we see, look here, appearing, you see, right here.
With our little nurse cells, all this fluid.
ZP3, it's a
It's a recognition
that happens first at the level
of the membrane.
Once we've recognized each other,
you're willing to open, I can enter.
But if you don't have that recognition,
it's not possible.
That means our first recognition
is a membrane recognition.
Am I recognized?
But look now what's happening.
Most of the time, we now do in vitro
fertilization.
In in vitro fertilization, there are different types,
but the most common one now is what's called ICSI.
That is, we take, I come with a large needle,
I don't care about your back part, I go
inside and I deposit the spermatozoon
and the heritage of the spermatozoon.
That means there's no recognition.
We don't have much, much, much hindsight yet, but one of the risks is that we are causing
more and more fertility problems.
You see?
But these children also come for consultations.
the first question I ask
how was the conception
was it a natural conception or not
very rarely
they will tell you first
they come with their baby
a here, a we ask
were there any miscarriages
it's important
there are uteruses where frankly
it's full of miscarriages, they need to be cleaned
the uteruses on an energetic, on a mental level
energetic, you have to release that, it doesn't work, and if
it's not, the only thing
we can do is recognize the child, I recognize it by my
membrane, by the
mother, I make contact, there are mothers who don't touch their heart, they don't touch
their belly, they haven't touched, they haven't recognized, they haven't been
brought, you have to reconnect them to that, you see, you have to reconnect them between the heart
and the mother and the belly, so I give back this knowledge.
they are morally, if you will,
but it's important, and children,
they see that, they feel that.
What's very important is that we must
know our history.
The worst, the worst,
for an individual, is what we call
the unspoken.
But the most important thing,
is the idea that I must
know my history.
It's a magnificent gift,
it can be something wonderful.
Close to me,
there's a story like that of a woman
who went through a donation
of sperm
and the child doesn't know
he doesn't know his story
so he carries within him
a lie
he doesn't know
because tissues don't know how to lie
they don't know how to hide you
you can't hide it in the tissues
you can hide it in your mind
but not in your tissues
that's why
not to reach a power in his hands, because we touch something that is
The oocyte is polarized, and I told you, when the spermatozoon arrives,
there is a reorganization of these axes, which creates dorso-
ventral apicocaudal axes.
It's as if, but you shouldn't see it so strongly, but it's as if, in humans,
this moment is a connection with the heart.
And there, they arrive and they will first try to pass this layer,
there are still several of them, to reach the zona pellucida,
to finally reach the membrane,
and there again, they must have this membrane recognition.
And there, there are some who are looking for the key.
and it's him
who has the key
and what does he do once he has the key
there is a transformation
you see of this tissue
he will release an acid
it's really an attack
to enter the mucosa
it's a
something quite strong to enter
an acrosomal acid
and he will enter, he will lose his tail
and then at that moment
moment, closure, by degranulation around the membrane
to close to everyone.
Here, we see here the two heritages that will
meet. This will form here
the meeting. This is really an important image that we see here. We
see the meeting
of these two heritages. Look what happens, how incredible it is.
we see that it's alive
and there, look, all of a sudden
I think we'll see it here
there, you see, look closely, we see well
hop
and there, second important photo
important
it's already a big cell
and now we enter a dynamic process
that will interest us
and this first cell of life
It will form the first two cells of your life, which are called the
first two blastomeres, the first two blastomeres.
That means the first two germ-mother cells.
They are there.
Because for me, it had started, all this embryology work, I
was looking for this polarity, these things.
And there.
I arrive with this at a biologist friend's place.
I found the image of the axis, etc.
Because I had seen that there were polar bodies
and that it was like that.
And I saw an axis. Well, I go to a biologist friend who taught me a lot, Marc Ruffray, an osteopath biologist. A kind of living library. There are some who have read more books than you will read in three lifetimes. And on that, the idea is great, but even if it exists, it's already something from before, and that's what we did, we finally went in my research to look for these first phases of polarity in the oocyte with these flags to form a possible pre-programming of the system.